Documentation for Radius + Flux integration (#1408)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/tutorials/gitops-flux/index.md

Reviewer: suggest moving this file to the How-To guide instead (i.e. here: `docs/content/guides/deploy-apps/gitops/how-to-flux/`). Tutorials focus more on bigger scenarios, whereas gitops is a very specific how-to.

Reviewer: when argo is added in the future, then there'd be an additional guide created in `docs/content/guides/deploy-apps/gitops/how-to-argocd`

---
type: docs

> title: "Tutorial: Integrate Radius with Flux"
> linkTitle: "Integrate with Flux"
> description: "Learn how to integrate Radius with Flux for GitOps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How-To: Set up Radius with Flux"
linkTitle: "Flux setup"
description: "Learn how to set up Radius to work with Flux for GitOps"
```

weight: 100

> categories: "Tutorial"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Flux"]
```

---

> This tutorial will guide you through integrating Radius with Flux for GitOps. You will learn how to:
> 
> 1. Install Flux in your Kubernetes cluster
> 1. Configure Flux to manage your Radius application
> 1. Deploy your application using Flux
> 
> By the end of the tutorial, you will have a Radius application defined in a Git repository managed by Flux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will provide an overview of how to:

1. Set up Radius with Flux for GitOps
1. Configure Flux to manage your Radius application
1. Deploy your Radius application using Flux
```

   ```bash
   flux install --namespace=flux-system --version=latest --components=source-controller --network-policy=false
   ```

   {{< alert title="💡 Required Flux Components" color="info" >}}
   The Flux source controller is required for this Radius + Flux integration. The `--components=source-controller` flag ensures that the source controller is installed in your cluster. This component is responsible for managing the Git repository and syncing it with your Kubernetes cluster.
   {{< /alert >}}

   {{< alert title="⚠️ Network Policy" color="warning" >}}
   The `--network-policy=false` flag is specified here to disable the network policy for the Flux source controller, since by default access to Flux components is restricted. For a production setup, you can instead remove this flag and configure the network policy to allow `radius-system` namespace access to the source controller. This will ensure that the source controller can communicate with your Git repository and sync changes effectively.
   For more information on the network policy, see the [Flux documentation](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/configuration/optional-components/#network-policies).

>    {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: remove these detailed steps and instead list them as a part of the prereqs with points to Flux documentation for setting these up.

## Step 3: Initialize a Radius Environment and Application

1. Initialize a new Radius Environment with [`rad init`]({{< ref rad_initialize >}}):

   ```bash
   rad init
   ```

>    When asked if you want to create a new application select "Yes". This will create a new file named `app.bicep` in your directory where your application will be defined. It will also create a [`bicepconfig.json`]({{< ref "/guides/tooling/bicepconfig/overview" >}}) file that will contain the necessary setup to use Radius types with Bicep.

Reviewer: remove this and just add it as an additional item in prereqs:
- [Radius environment]({{< ref "installation#step-3-initialize-radius" >}})
- [Radius local-dev Recipes]({{< ref howto-dev-recipes >}})

## Step 3: Prepare Application for Deployment by Flux

1. Open `app.bicep` and see the scaffolded application created by `rad init`:

   {{% rad file="snippets/1-app.bicep" embed=true %}}

1. Update the `app.bicep` file. We want to link the default environment and specify an application to deploy Radius resources to.

   {{% rad file="snippets/2-app-with-environment.bicep" embed=true %}}

>    This Radius application is now ready to be deployed. Instead of using the `rad deploy` CLI command, we will use Flux to detect changes in the Git repository and deploy the application automatically.

Reviewer: Make this its own step, and instead of asking the user to use the scaffolded default app, have them just create a new app.bicep with the bicep snippet available for them to follow. See example here: https://docs.radapp.io/guides/author-apps/dapr/how-to-dapr-sidecar/

   Next, we will create a configuration file to inform Radius about which Bicep files to compile and deploy. This file is called `radius-gitops-config.yaml` and it will be created in the same directory as your `app.bicep` file.

   Create a new file named `radius-gitops-config.yaml` and add the following content:

   {{% rad file="snippets/2-radius-gitops-config.yaml" embed=true %}}

   Finally, commit and push your changes to the Git repository:

   ```bash
   git add app.bicep radius-gitops-config.yaml
   git commit -m "Add Radius application and configuration for Flux"
   git push origin main
   ```

> ## Step 4: Configure Flux to Manage Your Application

Reviewer: these Flux specific steps are fine to include as they are core to the Flux+Radius workflow

1. Update the `radius-gitops-config.yaml` file to include the new parameter file:

   {{% rad file="snippets/3-radius-gitops-config.yaml" embed=true %}}

1. As before, commit and push your changes to the Git repository:

   ```bash
   git add app.bicep app.bicepparam radius-gitops-config.yaml
   git commit -m "Update application definition and parameters"
   git push origin main
   ```

   After some time (Flux needs to reconcile the Git repository), you should be able to see that the application has been scaled up to 3 replicas:

   ```bash
   ❯ kubectl get pods -A
   NAMESPACE            NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
   ...
   default-app          demo-56d7fd6b64-6zwj7                        1/1     Running   0             2m19s
   default-app          demo-56d7fd6b64-n9rqz                        1/1     Running   0             2m19s
   default-app          demo-56d7fd6b64-q95sl                        1/1     Running   0             13m
   ...
   ```

   Congratulations! You have successfully integrated Radius with Flux for GitOps. You can now manage your Radius applications using Git as the single source of truth.

>    

Reviewer: add a clean up step for the user to clean up the Radius stuff they created for this how-to, see https://docs.radapp.io/guides/author-apps/dapr/how-to-dapr-sidecar/#cleanup

## Next steps

> Check out the [Radius + GitOps overview]({{< ref "guides/deploy-apps/gitops/overview" >}}) for more detailed information on how to use Radius with GitOps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [Radius + GitOps overview]({{< ref "guides/deploy-apps/gitops/overview" >}}) for more information on how to use Radius integrates with GitOps solutions.
```
